---
title: "THE-SEAN: A Heart Rate Variation-Inspired Temporally High-Order Event-Based Visual Odometry with Self-Supervised Spiking Event Accumulation Networks"
collection: publications
# permalink: /publication/2025-06-16-A2I-Calib: An Anti-noise Active Multi-IMU Spatial-temporal Calibration Framework for Legged Robots
excerpt: 'In this paper, we introduce a temporally high-order event-based visual odometry with spiking event accumulation networks (THE-SEAN). To the best of our knowledge, it is the first event-based visual odometry capable of dynamically adjusting its estimation trigger decision in response to motion and environmental changes.'
date: 2025-06-16
venue: 'IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS)'
paperurl: 'https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.05112'
# citation: 'Your Name, You. (2015). &quot;Paper Title Number 3.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(3).'
---
Event-based visual odometry has recently gained attention for its high accuracy and real-time performance in fast-motion systems. Unlike traditional synchronous estimators that rely on constant-frequency (zero-order) triggers, event-based visual odometry can actively accumulate information to generate temporally high-order estimation triggers. However, existing methods primarily focus on adaptive event representation after estimation triggers, neglecting the decision-making process for efficient temporal triggering itself. This oversight leads to the computational redundancy and noise accumulation. In this paper, we introduce a temporally high-order event-based visual odometry with spiking event accumulation networks (THE-SEAN). To the best of our knowledge, it is the first event-based visual odometry capable of dynamically adjusting its estimation trigger decision in response to motion and environmental changes. Inspired by biological systems that regulate hormone secretion to modulate heart rate, a self-supervised spiking neural network is designed to generate estimation triggers. This spiking network extracts temporal features to produce triggers, with rewards based on block matching points and Fisher information matrix (FIM) trace acquired from the estimator itself. Finally, THE-SEAN is evaluated across several open datasets, thereby demonstrating average improvements of 13\% in estimation accuracy, 9\% in smoothness, and 38\% in triggering efficiency compared to the state-of-the-art methods.
